docs/frontend/NETWORK_CAPTURE.md, before:

# Network Capture Module

This module provides browser automation and network traffic interception capabilities to capture detailed search data that is not available through official provider APIs.

## Status: Phase 2 Complete (ChatGPT Infrastructure)

✅ Database schema updated with network log fields  
✅ Base classes and module structure created  
✅ UI toggle for mode selection implemented  
✅ ChatGPT browser automation with Chrome  
✅ Session persistence with storageState API  
✅ Automatic login and session restoration  
✅ Web search enablement (/search command + menu fallback)  
✅ Network log parsing and normalization (search queries, sources, ranks, scores)  
✅ Response text extraction with inline citations  
⏳ Claude capture (not started)  
⏳ Gemini capture (not started)

## Architecture

```
frontend/network_capture/
├── __init__.py              # Module exports
├── base_capturer.py         # Abstract base class for all capturers
├── browser_manager.py       # Browser lifecycle and network interception utilities
├── parser.py                # Network log parsers for different providers
├── chatgpt_capturer.py      # ChatGPT-specific implementation
├── claude_capturer.py       # (future)
└── gemini_capturer.py       # (future)
```

## Usage

### Prerequisites

1. Install Playwright with Chrome browser:
   ```bash
   pip install playwright playwright-stealth
   python -m playwright install chrome
   ```

   **Important:** Use Chrome (not Chromium) - Chromium is detected by OpenAI.

2. Configure ChatGPT authentication in `.env`:
   ```bash
   CHATGPT_EMAIL=your_email@example.com
   CHATGPT_PASSWORD=your_password_here
   ```

   **Session Persistence:**
   - Login state saved to `data/chatgpt_session.json` (auto-created, ~190KB)
   - Subsequent runs skip authentication if session valid
   - Delete session file to force fresh login

### In the UI

1. Navigate to the "Interactive" tab
2. Toggle "Network Logs (Experimental)" mode
3. Submit prompts normally - headless browser runs invisibly in background
4. No difference in UX - just richer data captured!

### Programmatic Usage

```python
from frontend.network_capture.chatgpt_capturer import ChatGPTCapturer

# Create capturer (optionally specify session file path)
capturer = ChatGPTCapturer()  # Uses default: data/chatgpt_session.json

# Start browser (non-headless for CAPTCHA bypass, uses Chrome)
capturer.start_browser(headless=False)

# Authenticate (auto-restores session if valid, otherwise logs in)
# Requires CHATGPT_EMAIL and CHATGPT_PASSWORD in .env
if capturer.authenticate():
    # Send prompt with web search enabled
    response = capturer.send_prompt(
        prompt="What are the latest AI developments?",
        model="chatgpt-free",
        enable_search=True  # Uses /search command + menu fallback
    )

    # Response includes text, inline citations, and normalized metadata
    print(f"Response: {response.response_text}")
    print(f"Citations found: {len(response.sources_used)}")

# Cleanup
capturer.stop_browser()
```

## Data Captured in Network Log Mode

Beyond what APIs provide, network logs can capture:

### Search Queries
- `internal_ranking_scores`: How model scored each result
- `query_reformulations`: How queries evolved during search

### Sources
- `snippet_text`: Actual text extracted by model
- `internal_score`: Relevance score assigned by model
- `metadata`: Full metadata model saw (titles, descriptions, etc.)

### Citations
- `snippet_cited`: Exact snippet used in response
- `citation_confidence`: Model's confidence in citation

## Implementation Status

### Phase 1: Infrastructure ✅
- [x] Database schema updates
- [x] Base classes and abstractions
- [x] Module structure
- [x] UI mode toggle
- [x] Migration script

### Phase 2: ChatGPT Capture ✅
- [x] Chrome browser integration (bypasses detection)
- [x] Session persistence with storageState API
- [x] Automatic login and session restoration
- [x] Login detection (check for chat interface + absence of login buttons)
- [x] UI interaction (prompt submission)
- [x] Web search enablement via /search command
- [x] Fallback menu navigation (Add → More → Web search)
- [x] Search activation detection
- [x] Response text extraction
- [x] Inline citation parsing and normalization
- [x] Network log parsing (search metadata, ranks, internal scores)

### Phase 3: Live Streaming & Analysis ⏳
- [ ] Implement live event streaming (see `docs/proposals/LIVE_NETWORK_LOGS_PLAN.md`)
- [ ] Persist structured event logs for replay/download
- [ ] Create comparison views (API vs Network Log)
- [ ] Claude network capture
- [ ] Gemini network capture
- [ ] Cross-provider analysis tools
- [ ] Claude network capture
- [ ] Gemini network capture
- [ ] Cross-provider analysis tools

## Next Steps

To continue development:

1. **Build the Live Network Log tab** – follow `docs/proposals/LIVE_NETWORK_LOGS_PLAN.md` for backend SSE endpoints and Streamlit UX.
2. **Extend provider coverage** – add Claude/Gemini capturers that reuse the shared abstractions.
3. **Enhance analytics** – ship comparison and visualization tooling that showcases the richer metadata captured from network logs.

## Key Advantages of This Approach

1. **Session Persistence:** Login once, sessions persist across runs (storageState API)
2. **Free tier:** Uses ChatGPT account, no API costs
3. **Dual Search Methods:** /search command (primary) + menu navigation (fallback)
4. **Automatic Login:** Credentials from .env, manual 2FA/CAPTCHA when needed
5. **Detection Bypass:** Chrome browser successfully bypasses OpenAI detection
6. **Rich Data:** Response text + inline citations + network metadata (queries, ranks, scores)

## Legal & Ethical Notes

- This module operates in a legal gray area
- Intended for personal research use only
- Users capture traffic from their own accounts
- Requires explicit user consent via UI toggle
- Not for commercial use or scale
- May violate provider Terms of Service

Use responsibly and at your own risk.

Commit message:

Rename snippet_text to search_description
Drop unused query_sources.snippet_text, rename response_sources.snippet_text, update backend/frontend usages and docs (with API compatibility alias).

docs/frontend/NETWORK_CAPTURE.md, after:

# Network Capture Module

This module provides browser automation and network traffic interception capabilities to capture detailed search data that is not available through official provider APIs.

## Status: Phase 2 Complete (ChatGPT Infrastructure)

✅ Database schema updated with network log fields  
✅ Base classes and module structure created  
✅ UI toggle for mode selection implemented  
✅ ChatGPT browser automation with Chrome  
✅ Session persistence with storageState API  
✅ Automatic login and session restoration  
✅ Web search enablement (/search command + menu fallback)  
✅ Network log parsing and normalization (search queries, sources, ranks, scores)  
✅ Response text extraction with inline citations  
⏳ Claude capture (not started)  
⏳ Gemini capture (not started)

## Architecture

```
frontend/network_capture/
├── __init__.py              # Module exports
├── base_capturer.py         # Abstract base class for all capturers
├── browser_manager.py       # Browser lifecycle and network interception utilities
├── parser.py                # Network log parsers for different providers
├── chatgpt_capturer.py      # ChatGPT-specific implementation
├── claude_capturer.py       # (future)
└── gemini_capturer.py       # (future)
```

## Usage

### Prerequisites

1. Install Playwright with Chrome browser:
   ```bash
   pip install playwright playwright-stealth
   python -m playwright install chrome
   ```

   **Important:** Use Chrome (not Chromium) - Chromium is detected by OpenAI.

2. Configure ChatGPT authentication in `.env`:
   ```bash
   CHATGPT_EMAIL=your_email@example.com
   CHATGPT_PASSWORD=your_password_here
   ```

   **Session Persistence:**
   - Login state saved to `data/chatgpt_session.json` (auto-created, ~190KB)
   - Subsequent runs skip authentication if session valid
   - Delete session file to force fresh login

### In the UI

1. Navigate to the "Interactive" tab
2. Toggle "Network Logs (Experimental)" mode
3. Submit prompts normally - headless browser runs invisibly in background
4. No difference in UX - just richer data captured!

### Programmatic Usage

```python
from frontend.network_capture.chatgpt_capturer import ChatGPTCapturer

# Create capturer (optionally specify session file path)
capturer = ChatGPTCapturer()  # Uses default: data/chatgpt_session.json

# Start browser (non-headless for CAPTCHA bypass, uses Chrome)
capturer.start_browser(headless=False)

# Authenticate (auto-restores session if valid, otherwise logs in)
# Requires CHATGPT_EMAIL and CHATGPT_PASSWORD in .env
if capturer.authenticate():
    # Send prompt with web search enabled
    response = capturer.send_prompt(
        prompt="What are the latest AI developments?",
        model="chatgpt-free",
        enable_search=True  # Uses /search command + menu fallback
    )

    # Response includes text, inline citations, and normalized metadata
    print(f"Response: {response.response_text}")
    print(f"Citations found: {len(response.sources_used)}")

# Cleanup
capturer.stop_browser()
```

## Data Captured in Network Log Mode

Beyond what APIs provide, network logs can capture:

### Search Queries
- `internal_ranking_scores`: How model scored each result
- `query_reformulations`: How queries evolved during search

### Sources
- `search_description`: Search result description/snippet text for the source
  - Compatibility: API accepts legacy `snippet_text` and returns it as a deprecated alias.
- `internal_score`: Relevance score assigned by model
- `metadata`: Full metadata model saw (titles, descriptions, etc.)

### Citations
- `snippet_cited`: Exact snippet used in response
- `citation_confidence`: Model's confidence in citation

## Implementation Status

### Phase 1: Infrastructure ✅
- [x] Database schema updates
- [x] Base classes and abstractions
- [x] Module structure
- [x] UI mode toggle
- [x] Migration script

### Phase 2: ChatGPT Capture ✅
- [x] Chrome browser integration (bypasses detection)
- [x] Session persistence with storageState API
- [x] Automatic login and session restoration
- [x] Login detection (check for chat interface + absence of login buttons)
- [x] UI interaction (prompt submission)
- [x] Web search enablement via /search command
- [x] Fallback menu navigation (Add → More → Web search)
- [x] Search activation detection
- [x] Response text extraction
- [x] Inline citation parsing and normalization
- [x] Network log parsing (search metadata, ranks, internal scores)

### Phase 3: Live Streaming & Analysis ⏳
- [ ] Implement live event streaming (see `docs/proposals/LIVE_NETWORK_LOGS_PLAN.md`)
- [ ] Persist structured event logs for replay/download
- [ ] Create comparison views (API vs Network Log)
- [ ] Claude network capture
- [ ] Gemini network capture
- [ ] Cross-provider analysis tools
- [ ] Claude network capture
- [ ] Gemini network capture
- [ ] Cross-provider analysis tools

## Next Steps

To continue development:

1. **Build the Live Network Log tab** – follow `docs/proposals/LIVE_NETWORK_LOGS_PLAN.md` for backend SSE endpoints and Streamlit UX.
2. **Extend provider coverage** – add Claude/Gemini capturers that reuse the shared abstractions.
3. **Enhance analytics** – ship comparison and visualization tooling that showcases the richer metadata captured from network logs.

## Key Advantages of This Approach

1. **Session Persistence:** Login once, sessions persist across runs (storageState API)
2. **Free tier:** Uses ChatGPT account, no API costs
3. **Dual Search Methods:** /search command (primary) + menu navigation (fallback)
4. **Automatic Login:** Credentials from .env, manual 2FA/CAPTCHA when needed
5. **Detection Bypass:** Chrome browser successfully bypasses OpenAI detection
6. **Rich Data:** Response text + inline citations + network metadata (queries, ranks, scores)

## Legal & Ethical Notes

- This module operates in a legal gray area
- Intended for personal research use only
- Users capture traffic from their own accounts
- Requires explicit user consent via UI toggle
- Not for commercial use or scale
- May violate provider Terms of Service

Use responsibly and at your own risk.
